.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.\" "verbatim" environment (from strace.1)
.de CW
.sp
.nf
.ft CW
..
.de CE
.ft
.fi
.sp
..
.\"
.TH sdate 1 "4620 September 1993" "Debian Project" "Debian manual"
.\" Manpage by Christoph Berg <cb@df7cb.de>
.SH NAME
sdate \- never ending September date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdate 
.B [\-e|\-\-epoch
.IB yyyy-mm]
.B [\-c|\-\-covid
.IB vv]
.B [\-l|\-\-lib
.IB library]
.BI [\-\-]
.BI [command]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sdate
runs a command in an environment wherein it wraps the libc localtime() and
gmtime() calls such that the program will use the eternal September date.
The wrapper functions are in a shared library
.B /usr/lib/libsdate/libsdate.so*
which is loaded through the 
.B LD_PRELOAD
mechanism of the dynamic loader. (See
.BR ld.so (8))
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIyyyy-mm\fR, \fB\-\-epoch\fR \fIyyyy-mm\fR
Specify an alternative epoch, default is 1993-09.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIvv\fR, \fB\-\-covid\fR \fIvv\fR
Enable COVID mode, for the specified variant. Sets epoch to
an appropriate value for the variant.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIlibrary\fR, \fB\-\-lib\fR \fIlibrary\fR
Specify an alternative wrapper library.
.TP
.BI [\-\-] \ command
Any command you want to be ran. Use \(oq\-\-\(cq if in the command
you have other options that may confuse sdate's option parsing.
.TP
.BI \-h
Display help.
.TP
.BI \-v
Display version.
.SH FILES
.I /usr/lib/libsdate/*
The shared library containing the wrapper functions.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B LD_PRELOAD
.SH LIMITATIONS
.B
.IP "Library versions"
Every command executed within 
.B sdate 
needs to be linked to the same version of the C library as
.B sdate
itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
http://www.catb.org/~esr/jargon/html/S/September-that-never-ended.html
.TP
https://www.df7cb.de/projects/sdate/
.SH COPYING
.B sdate
is distributed under the GNU General Public License.
(GPL v2 or later).
.SH AUTHORS
.TP
Christoph Berg
.RI < cb@df7cb.de >
